Good afternoon.
I'm Anders Bertelrud.
Welcome to session 404, Building from the
Command Line with Xcode.
A lot of the Xcode sessions in this
week are going to talk about various
aspects of the Xcode user interface,
the editor, source code management,
building, debugging.
But in this next hour,
we're going to focus on working with
your projects from the command line.
So the first question is, why?
Well, why work from the command
line when there's a great IDE?
Turns out that it's both
interesting and useful to do that,
and we'll show many examples
of that in this session.
And so after convincing ourselves
that it's useful and interesting,
we're going to talk about
how to use Xcode build.
Xcode build is the main gateway
to Xcode from the command line.
After that,
we'll look at how you can customize
your project in the Xcode user
interface so that you can use Xcode
build with it more effectively.
You can set up some defaults that
you can then invoke from Xcode build.
Then we'll look at automating your
build workflow using Xcode build and...
Excellent.
You're in the right session.
And after that,
we're going to take a look at how you
can invoke the compiler and linker
directly if you're using a project that
doesn't even use the Xcode build system.
So first of all, why?
Well, in a word, it's automation.
So on a Unix-based OS like Mac OS X,
the command line tools are
the way to automate things,
whether it's through shell scripts or
Python or Perl or anything like that.
The automation works
by invoking commands.
And so using this,
you can set up nightly builds
or daily builds so that when
you come into the morning,
there's a ready-built version for
the testers or for yourself to use.
And of course, you can integrate with
continuous integration systems.
Some of you may not
be familiar with that,
so we'll talk more in detail about
that in the second part of the talk,
what that is.
And then a secondary use for command
line tools are if you have a build
system that doesn't use Xcode at all.
So you may have a cross-platform
project that you're working on that
works on a lot of different systems.
And Xcode, of course, is an OS X app,
so you may need to use the
linker and compiler directly
in order to build your project.
And there are various systems like
Mac Ports and Fink and Homebrew
that use the tools directly,
the compiler and linker.
So in order to use Xcode Build,
let's take a look first,
what is Xcode Build?
So Xcode Build, it's a command line tool,
and it allows you to work with
the projects and workspaces.
Xcode 4 introduces the
concept of workspaces,
and Xcode Build understands both,
projects and workspaces.
And what it lets you do is to
perform batch operations on
your projects and workspaces.
What I mean by that is,
it's not a tool for opening up your
project in a console editor and for
customizing your project or working
with it at a fine-grained level.
It's a tool for operating on
projects and workspaces as a whole.
So you can build them,
you can archive them,
and for OS X projects,
you can do unit testing automatically.
And you can also query your projects
and workspaces for information,
such as what schemes they define,
what the names of the targets are,
those kinds of things.
And Xcode Build is a very rich
tool that has a lot of options,
and there is an excellent man page,
the standard Unix man
command for manuals.
It gives you a lot of information.
We're going to cover
some of it in this talk,
but there's a lot more
information using man Xcode Build.
Okay,
so let me bring up a Terminal window
because no command line tool session
would be complete without Terminal.
And I'm just going to show you some
of the most common uses of it and then
we'll get progressively more advanced.
So first of all,
Xcode build works like many
of the other build tools that
you may be familiar with.
Make or Ant or any of the other
ones like that where you first
change directory into the directory
that contains your project.
And then the simplest thing to
do is to just invoke Xcode build
and that will build your project
using the settings that you had the
last time you opened it in Xcode.
So the same thing that would
happen if you hit Command R to
build and run in Xcode itself.
So when you do that,
you get a bunch of output.
The first part of it we see here.
And that's the build log and so it
shows you the details of everything
that happened during the build.
So let's take a look at what
that actually is showing you.
So first of all, the build log is a
little bit more complex.
The build log has a hierarchical
structure and at the top level are
the one or more targets that you're
building as part of that build log.
It could be just your single app
or it could be a very complicated
workspace that has 50 projects,
each of which has 10 targets.
So at the top level, the targets.
And then for each target,
it's built using one or more commands.
You could have a very large
project such as the WebKit,
the project that builds WebKit that
has thousands of compiler invocations.
But you could also have a target
whose only purpose is to run a
custom shell script to just produce
some file that you have set up.
In that case,
it's just one command for the target.
But in either case,
that's the second level
underneath the targets.
And then of course,
we hope that our build completes
without a single warning or error,
but that's not always the case.
So if there are diagnostics,
they show up underneath the commands.
So even when you're looking
at a flat text output,
that's the basic structure of a command,
of a build log.
So looking at this build log again,
you see at the top there is a
fairly handy summary of what
it is you're actually building.
In this case, just the one target.
But one of those will show up
at the beginning of each target.
And then of course the commands.
Each one has a summary
line at the beginning,
and then the actual commands
that get run underneath.
On a console they'll actually wrap,
but I made them not wrap here just
to show the basic structure of it.
Further on down we see, for example,
an interface builder compilation.
Those are resources too that get
compiled into a runtime format.
A pre-compilation of a header to
speed up the rest of the build,
and then some compiler commands.
So if you look at this,
you'll see every little switch
that Xcode is actually generating.
So Xcode, when it compiles,
most of you know this, but some may not,
is actually invoking the same
command line tools that you
would invoke outside of Xcode.
And it's passing arguments
that are generated based on the
configuration of your project.
So at the bottom here we have
one or more link commands.
If you're building
something that gets loaded.
So this is the first
one that gets linked.
One or more because there could
be multiple architectures.
And then hopefully the build succeeds.
So that's the status line at the end.
So this is really the same thing that
we're seeing in the Xcode console,
basically.
The Xcode run log.
And so at the top you
have some filter fields.
Just to let you narrow things down,
and then you see the target level here.
Just trying to draw an association
here between the Xcode build
output and what you may already
be familiar with in the IDE.
You see the commands
underneath in the IDE,
and then the status line at the end.
So that's really the same as
the build log on the console.
Except for one thing.
You don't actually see
the commands in the IDE,
right?
Or do you?
You actually do.
You see the summary command,
but then there is a little
widget on the right side,
which you can click,
and you can actually see the
command that Xcode will execute,
which is the same thing
you see on the console.
So if you twist that down
by clicking on the widget,
you'll see actually the same summary
line as you see on the console.
You'll see the changing of the
directory into the directory
that contains the project,
setting environment variables,
and invoking the full command.
And here's a little useful tip.
You can actually copy the commands
from the build log inside.
from the build log inside of Xcode and
paste them into a terminal window to
change the directory to the right place,
set the right environment variables,
and call the right command.
This can be useful if
you want to invoke it,
for example, with extra verbosity to see
exactly what the compiler is doing.
So that's a useful tip.
So after having seen the build
log and what the output is,
one of the questions is,
where do the outputs go?
If you build and run in Xcode, the IDE,
then Xcode puts them someplace,
and you can use show in finder
to actually get to the outputs,
or if you make an archive,
it shows up in the organizer.
But on the command line,
we need to know where they go.
So there are three kinds of outputs.
There are the intermediates, of course,
which are the compiled code
and the generated sources.
These are the files that you
don't actually ship to your users.
They're just there to make the builds
go faster if you do iterative builds.
And so you can control that using
a build setting called objroot.
It's kind of an archaic name,
but it's for where the objects go.
So that's the root directory
where the objects go.
And there's a shared precomp dur that's
similar for the precompiled headers.
They're shared because they're shared
between the targets in your workspace.
The second level of output
are the debug products.
So these are similar to what
you would ship to your users,
but they are built maybe
without optimization by default.
They're built with extra debug symbols.
And so they're more suitable for
debugging than the release products are.
So there is a setting that
controls where they go.
That's the SIM route for
the symbolicated routes.
And that's also where the DSIM files go.
These are what the files that contain
the DWARF debug output that get
included automatically in an archive
when building from Xcode itself.
The release products go into what
we call the distribution route,
DST route,
and these are the actual release products
that are built with full optimization.
And if you have specified
an install path,
which you would not do for an app,
but for example,
if you have a kernel extension,
then they get put underneath the
dest route in a path which is
equivalent to the install route.
So that's where the outputs go.
And so you can customize -- so that's
something you control on an invocation
basis when you invoke Xcode build.
But you can also customize your project
and set things that you want to be true
every time you build with Xcode build.
And there are two main ways to do that.
You control that using schemes.
That's the main way.
But you can also override
individual build settings.
So any build setting that
you can set in your project,
you can actually override on
the Xcode build command line.
We'll look at detail how to do that.
And so that involves configuration files.
There is a flag to Xcode build
to use a particular configuration
file full of settings.
But you can also specifically
set architectures,
SDKs, or any other build settings
that you have the name of.
So just a quick note about schemes.
So there will be a session
tomorrow in Marina at 4:30,
same time as this,
talking in detail about schemes and
how to put them to good use in Xcode.
But just briefly here today so the
rest of the content makes sense.
A scheme is essentially a
collection of targets to build.
For a simple iOS app,
it would probably be just a single app.
For something else like client server,
it may be things that have meaning
to you as a user to go together.
There's some semantic connection
even though there may not
be a technical connection.
So you can collect any arbitrary
collection of targets you
want into a scheme and say,
"Yep, when I build this scheme,
I want all these guys built."
And you can then specify a
configuration to use for building.
You can specify a different
configuration for archiving.
Typically you would use debug for debug
builds and release for archive builds.
You can also specify an optional
collection of tests that you want to run.
So unit tests are a great
way to test your code.
Make sure that you don't introduce
any regressions when you make changes.
And you can specify those
in a scheme as well.
In addition, you can define anything that
you can run as a shell script,
you can actually define as a
pre-condition or a pre-action
or post-processing action.
So you can say, for example,
that after my build,
I want to go ahead and upload
my build product to an internal
staging server I'm going to use
for testing or anything like that.
So in order to know which schemes
to build from the command line,
you want to be able to see which
schemes are in the project.
And both workspaces and
projects can contain schemes.
So in this case, we're going to list the
schemes in a workspace here.
So we use the Xcode build command,
and we specify dash workspace to
give it the name of the workspace.
And then the list command will
tell you what's in the workspace.
In this particular workspace,
there are just two schemes.
There could be other
things in the workspace,
but that's all we have right here.
But those names are the actual
names that you would then
specify on the command line.
Now, if we look in the IDE,
we see the exact same thing
in the scheme manager.
So you have here, for example,
baffle-os10 and baffle-ios, which are,
in this case,
two sample projects in this workspace.
So that's the correlation there
with the IDE and the command line.
And then to use the schemes,
you basically configure it in Xcode,
and then you use it in Xcode.
build.
That's the general pattern here.
And the Scheme flag is the flag that
you use when you build in Xcode.
So, pretty straightforward.
So some ideas for how to customize
Schemes are just to show you some of
this UI if you're not familiar with it.
Again, the session tomorrow
at 4:30 gives details.
But you can set up what
happens when you build,
you can set up what
happens when you archive.
And here's an example,
not sure if it's readable,
but it's an example of invoking a
shell script after building that
uses SFTP to actually put the
archived binaries up onto a server,
and then sends out an email letting
you know that a new build is available.
For example,
you might have this run every night so
that every morning when you come in,
there's a new build.
So how do you specify a
scheme on the command line?
So, well, the scheme option,
as I mentioned.
And make sure you put the exact
name that you saw in the list
as output from the list flag.
Another thing you can specify
as an override are the SDKs.
So, for example,
you may have a project that you currently
have set up to build against 10.7,
but you want to try
building it against 10.8,
see what kind of warnings come out.
You can see what SDKs are available
for you to build against by
using the "show SDKs" flag.
And I know I'm going through
these fairly quickly,
but these are all documented, again,
in the man page in full detail.
This is mainly to get you aware
of what settings are available.
We'll also see later on in the talk how
to put this to practical use in a demo.
So, I realize I'm going fairly
quickly through these.
On the left side,
you see the actual description
of what the SDK is,
and on the right,
what the actual name of it is,
the identifier that you need
to pass on the command line.
And so, use the -sdk flag to
specify one of those.
[Transcript missing]
Or, as I mentioned,
you can set it in the environment.
And in this case,
you want to just set the same thing.
You export a variable with the same name,
and then just invoke Xcode build.
And the same thing will happen.
So there are a lot of build settings.
And we have great documentation
on the details of that.
It's a document called Xcode
build settings reference.
And it's available inside the
Xcode built-in documentation,
of course.
It's also available as both
HTML and a PDF file on the
developer resources PDF file,
so you can put it on your
iPad and read at the beach,
of course.
What else could be better?
So to put this all together,
we looked at different settings here,
and before we go to a
demo a little bit later,
I'm going to show you what a realistic
command line invocation of Xcode
build would look like for real.
So I'm going to use the
backslash notation here,
which is the line
continuation in shell syntax.
So Xcode build, of course.
And then you need to
specify the workspace,
again, because your directory may contain
multiple projects and workspaces,
so you need to tell
Xcode which one to use.
You'll want to specify
a scheme specifically.
You don't want to leave that out,
because if you leave it out,
Xcode will use the active
scheme in the workspace.
But the active scheme is what you've
chosen in the pop-up in Xcode,
so that means that you don't
really get predictable results.
You get whatever the active chosen
scheme is for you the last time
you open it in the workspace.
And again, this automation,
a lot of it is about predictability,
right?
So you want to make sure that you really
specify what it is you want to build,
especially if you're doing
that through a nightly build
script or something like that.
The next thing is you can
optionally specify an SDK.
If you don't specify one,
it will use whatever
is set in the target.
But if you specify one,
like in this case,
you can actually test build against
a different SDK that may be useful
to see what warnings show up,
those kinds of things.
And then I'm going to override the three
build settings that I mentioned earlier:
obdroute, symroute, and destroute.
In real life,
you wouldn't want to send those
outputs to temp because that will go
away when your machine is rebooted.
If you're doing a nightly build,
you'll actually want to put
those someplace that you can
get back to if there turns out
to be a problem with the build.
So there's one more question, though,
that needs to be answered.
And that is, if I just run Xcode build,
well, which Xcode build?
There's one Xcode build for each Xcode.
So all of you have Xcode 4.3.
As of yesterday, you have 4.3.3.
That's the latest GM version of Xcode.
That's the one you need to use
to submit to the App Store.
It's the one you need to use for
the final build of your apps.
And it's the production Xcode.
And so you'll still want to
have that on your system.
But as of yesterday,
you also have an Xcode 4.5 preview.
So now you have two Xcodes on the system.
And I'm sure you're eager to try out
what all the new things are in Xcode 4.5,
the SDKs.
But you still need to be able to
choose which Xcode build to invoke,
which build system,
which set of tools get invoked.
And each of these Xcodes contains
inside of it a set of the low-level
command line tools-- the compiler,
which is Clang.
Clang for us.
The linker, lex, yak, make,
even some subversion and get.
Those commands are all inside
of the Xcode app wrapper.
But there's another set of them
as well that are in the preview.
So that's a preview
release of the compiler,
the linker, et cetera.
And you don't want to use that
for a production build of your OS.
So which Xcode build gets chosen?
And the answer is there's
a tool called Xcode Select.
And that is in user bin.
And what it does is it sets the default
Xcode that gets used when you type
Xcode build on the Terminal window.
And it has an option called print
path that will just give you what
is the path of the current one.
So assuming you installed Xcode,
the GM release from the App Store,
it will be an application's Xcode,
and the developer directory
underneath it will be the default.
But you can switch that to be
the 4.5 preview in this case,
and you can just provide
the path to the app,
and then Xcode Select will actually set
the developer path underneath there to
be the place where it looks for headers,
libraries, for the command line tools by
default when you're building
from the command line.
So now if I say Xcode build-version,
you'll see that this has
been set to the preview.
So that sets it for the entire system.
And what it actually does is it
sets the default that's used by a
bunch of tools that are in user bin.
So there's an Xcode build in user
bin that calls the right one in
whatever Xcode select you have chosen.
There's XCRUN, which is a tool I haven't
mentioned yet in this talk,
which is also very handy.
I'll talk about it in a moment.
OpenDiff is a tool that lets you
open up -- it's the same as diff,
but instead of showing you the
differences graphically -- or
differences in the console,
it opens it up inside of a tool
called File Merge and shows
your graphical difference.
Instruments is the command line interface
to the Instruments developer tools app.
And there are also a variety of other
tools in there that look at the setting.
And again, that's all on the man pages.
XCRUN is particularly interesting.
And so let's take a closer look at that.
So Xcode build is what you use when
you want to simply build or operate on
an entire Xcode workspace or project.
XCRun is finer grained than that.
It's a tool that lets you run
a particular command line tool
that lives inside of Xcode.
So the compiler, the linker,
those kinds of things.
It's context sensitive,
meaning that it depends on what build
settings you pass in as override,
it depends on the SDK you've chosen,
and returns you the appropriate
tool to use for those conditions.
And it also falls back on using
the standard Unix path variable,
so that if you ask for
the path of a command that
doesn't exist inside of Xcode,
it will return one from the system.
So you always get a good result back
if there's anything at all in the path.
There are two modes to use this.
One is to just get back
the path of the tool.
So that's the find command,
the find option to that.
The second mode is to
prefix the path of the tool.
So you prefix the name
of the tool with XCRun,
and then provide the arguments.
So in that mode,
XCRun will look up the tool,
find the path,
and then invoke it with the arguments.
So an example of that is finding
the CC alias for the Client
Compiler will return the full
path that's inside of Xcode.
But invoking it directly is if we just
invoke the compiler prefix with XCRUN,
we'll just invoke the compiler.
And this can be particularly
useful when you are configuring a
makefile or something like that.
Another use of XCRUN is for
the version control commands.
So if you recall,
I mentioned that Xcode also includes Git,
SVN, and those commands inside of it.
So if you say XCRUN find Git,
it will find the one that's inside
of whatever Xcode you've selected.
And so when you go to run
Git from the command line,
then you can use XCRUN as a prefix,
but you can also take advantage
of shell aliases and set up,
in this case, this is bash syntax,
which is the default shell.
So you can set up that Git is
an alias for XCRUN Git.
So in this case, every time you type Git,
it's actually going to call XCRUN Git.
So you'll get whatever Xcode
has been selected at that time.
So then if I just say Git-version,
it actually calls XCRUN Git,
which redirects inside of Xcode
and invokes the right one.
But there's one caveat here,
or something to keep in mind.
It's really convenient to have
a default Xcode when you're
just typing at the Terminal,
and you just type Xcode
build and those things.
But again, if you're automating this and
running this from a nightly script,
you really want to make sure that
you're invoking a specific Xcode build.
Because otherwise,
if somebody uses Xcode select to
change which Xcode is the default,
you may get an unexpected one.
So to do that,
what you want to do is you want to
set the developer dir environment
variable in the environment,
or you could just pass it directly.
There's different shell
notations for doing this,
but one is to use the export command.
So if you set that in the environment,
then Xcode build and Xcode run
and all the other tools will
look at that in preference to
whatever you have Xcode selected.
So setting developer dir in the
environment overrides whatever
has been Xcode selected.
So this means that for a particular
invocation of Xcode build,
you can guarantee that
you get a certain one.
That gets important for automated builds,
as we'll see in the demo.
And then of course XCRUN after
this will find the right one.
And on to Xcode build.
So with that,
I'd like to ask my colleague
Daniel Dunbar to come up and
provide a more concrete example
of putting some of this to use.
Thanks.
All right.
Thanks, Anders.
My name's Daniel Dunbar.
I'm an engineer on the
Apple compiler team.
And what I want to do is make some
of the ideas Anders talked about a
little more concrete by giving an
example of automating Xcode build,
and, in particular,
using Xcode build within the
context of continuous integration.
So I hope a lot of you already know
the term continuous integration.
But if not,
here's a slightly formal definition.
So continuous integration,
also referred to as CI,
means defining a continuous process
for integrating and applying quality
checks to software development.
What does that actually mean?
For most developers,
continuous integration is
a pretty simple process.
You're working, you're developing commits
to your source repository.
And then somewhere else there's
a continuous integration server
which is watching that repository.
And when you make a new commit,
it's going to automatically
dispatch a build of your software.
Typically you'll run any automated
tests that you have available.
And then finally usually
you'll publish those either for
deployment or for further testing.
So if you're new to
continuous integration,
you may think, OK,
when would that be useful for me?
Well, there's a very compelling
example we have here at WWDC.
So a common problem is,
as Anders mentioned,
you have the Xcode GM tools.
You have Xcode 4.3,
and you need to be using
that to work on your app.
But you might also want to start
experimenting with the new preview.
Maybe you're going to
write some test code.
Maybe you're just going to check
how it builds against the new SDK.
And so you'd like to build with
both versions of the tools,
make sure everything keeps working.
Also,
I know a lot of developers have code,
or some part of code,
that's shared between a product
for OS X and a product for iOS.
If you make a change to the shared code,
then you don't want to always have to
switch to another target to make sure you
didn't break the build on that platform.
And that would be disruptive
to your development.
So how can we solve this?
Well, it's pretty straightforward.
We can use Xcode build in conjunction
with a continuous integration system
to automatically do these builds.
And we'll give an example
of that in a second.
So before I get to the example,
there's a couple important points
to remember when you're going
to try and automate Xcode build.
And this is sort of just reiterating some
of the points Anders mentioned before.
But these are things that are
worth keeping in mind when you
want to automate the build.
The first one is you should almost
always be setting developer dir.
You want to make sure that
you're building against a very
specific version of Xcode,
not whatever was most recently
selected on the system.
Also, make sure you use the appropriate
options to set the workspace,
the scheme, and the SDK.
And finally,
you probably want to use build settings
to control where the output files go.
You don't want them to go in
the default derived data folder.
Generally,
you want them to go in a specific
directory that's going to be managed
by your continuous integration system.
There are two other points
that are a little more subtle.
Oh, sorry, the settings,
as Anders mentioned, are destroot,
obstrut, symroot, and sharedprecomster.
So there's two other slightly
more obscure points that
I just want to make clear.
So usually a continuous integration
system runs as an alternate user.
So you need to make sure that that
user account on the system has
accepted the license agreement.
If you have complete control over the
system and you know all the users,
you can also accept the license agreement
for all the users on the system by
running sudo xcode build-license.
So that will accept the license agreement
for all of the users on the system.
The other important point is if
you're going to do builds for iOS,
then code signing needs access to
appropriate development certificates.
And a full discussion of this is
outside the scope of this talk,
but the tools that you would need to
use to do that are keychain access,
which manages the keychains
that have the certificates,
and then there's a command line
tool called security that lets
you access those certificates.
So with those prefaces out of the way,
I'm going to go ahead and switch
to the demo machine and look at
an example of actually setting up
a continuous integration system.
So the continuous integration system
here I'm using here is called Jenkins.
There are a lot of free
and open source -- Cool.
There are a lot of free and open source
continuous integration systems out there.
Some other popular ones are
Buildbot or Cruise Control.
The basic mechanics of all
of them are very similar.
So what I'm showing here should apply in
almost any continuous integration system.
So in this case, this system is installed
on the local machine here.
Generally this would be on a
server on your private network,
but for the purposes of the demo,
it's just on the machine right here.
And what I have here is Safari,
and this is showing the
web access to the server.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to start by creating
a new job for our test project.
I'm going to click New Job here,
and I'm going to say I'm
creating a job for Baffle.
That's the name of our project.
And I'm going to say I want to
build a multi-configuration project.
That just means that we're
going to end up doing multiple
builds from the same sources.
I'm going to click OK.
And then we need to define the
full configuration for our project.
So I'll start with a simple description.
As you can see,
it's an amazing word game.
And the first thing we need to do is tell
the continuous integration system where
to find the sources for our project.
Again, because it's a demo,
I just have the SVN repository
set up on the local machine.
Normally this would be
out on your network.
So that's the path to the
SVN repository on this machine.
And then I also need to tell the
system how often it should look for
changes in the source repository.
Again, because it's a demo,
I'm just going to say,
why don't you check every single minute?
So now we're going to
define a build variable.
This is a custom variable that we're
going to use eventually to select what
version of Xcode to build against.
So for now,
I'm just going to give this build
variable something called XcodeAppName,
and the value I'm going
to give it is just Xcode.
You'll see in a minute what
I'm going to use this for.
So finally,
the last and really the important part,
and the part that relates to this talk,
is we need to define how
do we build our project.
And generally, you're going to do this by
writing some kind of shell script.
So let's start by just taking the
commands that Anders showed before
and integrating them into this script.
So we'll start by setting the
developer dir environment variable.
And you can see what I'm doing here is
just using that Xcode app name variable
I defined before to automatically
derive the correct developer dir path.
So in this case, it's going to expand to
applications developer.app,
and then the correct Xcode
build will get invoked.
And then the only other thing we need
to do is set up the call to Xcode build.
So this should look very similar
to what Anders showed before.
We're calling Xcode build,
we're setting -- passing the workspace,
passing a scheme,
and then we're setting up all
build setting overrides so that the
outputs go in the directory we want.
And in this case,
we're using one additional
environment variable workspace here,
and that's just a variable which has
automatically been provided by Jenkins,
and it says where it
wants our outputs to go.
So with that out of the way,
I'm going to go ahead and click save,
and let's kick off a build.
I'm going to click build now,
and in a few seconds,
you'll see a build has started.
I can click on that,
and then I can navigate to the build log.
And what you see here is pretty
typical of what you would see in
any continuous integration system.
The first thing it's doing is running a
local -- an SVN checkout of our project.
You can see it's getting the shared code,
the shared resources.
And if I scroll down,
then you'll see what it's doing
after that is embedding the build.
And it's just running the
shell script we ran before,
or that we defined before.
So it's setting developer dir,
and it's calling Xcode build.
And everything after that is just the
build log output from Xcode build,
which is the same thing you would
have seen -- very similar to what
you would have seen in the IDE.
And if we scroll down to the bottom,
then --
If we scroll down to the bottom,
then you'll see that the build
succeeded and the continuous
integration system declared success.
Pretty simple.
But that's just one build.
What we wanted was a
more complicated matrix.
So let's go ahead and set that up.
I'm going to go back to our
project and click configure again.
And the first thing we're going to do is
just add to this to the Xcode app name.
We're going to say we also want
to build against Xcode 4.5 DP1.
That's the default name of the Xcode
4.5 preview that you got yesterday.
So we're also going to
add a new build variable.
We're going to call it SDK name and
we're going to put in the values of
the SDKs we want to build against.
So in this case, I'm putting in Mac OS X,
iPhone simulator and iPhone OS.
And one thing that
Anders didn't mention before,
when you pass the SDK name,
you can actually just pass it without
the version and Xcode will use whatever
the most recent version of the SDK is.
So now I'm going to update my
build script to use that variable.
And the things I need to change are the
scheme here has been hard-coded to OS X.
So we're going to have to fix that,
and we also need to pass the SDK option.
So let's start by deriving the correct
scheme based on the SDK name variable.
And this is just a little
bit of shell programming.
If you're not familiar with shell syntax,
that's okay.
It's pretty easy to figure it out.
So all we're doing is we're testing
if the SDK name is Mac OS X,
then we're going to say the
scheme name is baffle-osX.
Otherwise, the scheme name is baffle-ios.
And so now we just need to update this.
So here's our new build command.
So we passed the workspaces before,
and this time we pass in the
derived scheme name variable,
we pass in the SDK name,
and everything else is the same.
So when we save this now,
you'll see that Jenkins shows us
a table of all six configurations
that are defined here.
There's two versions of Xcode,
and there's three SDKs
we want to build against.
So let's go ahead and kick off
another build and see how things do.
Again, after a few seconds,
the build should show up.
And we'll click here,
and what's happening is the
continuous integration system is
automatically dispatching the builds.
And this machine,
it's decided to just do two at once,
and it's sort of randomly picked
two of the iPhone OS -- the
iOS versions in the preview.
So what you can see here is those
builds have actually failed.
Red indicates failure.
So let's go ahead and
see what that looks like.
So if we go to console output
and we view as plain text,
so now if I scroll down to the bottom,
what you can see is Xcode build is
reporting this build has failed.
Because Xcode build is
returning an error in that case,
Jenkins is also saying, oh,
the build failed.
And what happened is there's two
compile commands that failed.
An easy way to find them is just
to search for error colon in
a build log that quickly takes
you to the compiler output.
And what happens is that the compiler
output is saying that there's multiple
declarations of methods contains word.
So you may be wondering, well,
how come the build succeeded before?
Well, remember,
this was the build against Xcode 4.5.
Every time we come out
with a new compiler,
there are almost always new
warnings or improved diagnostics.
And so this is a new diagnostic that got
added in the Xcode 4.5 version of Clang.
And because I build my
project with -w error,
warnings become errors.
And so that caused this project to fail.
So let's just go ahead and fix that.
So I'll start Xcode 4.5.
And you can see I've already
got it set to open my project.
And let me just kick off a build here.
So very quickly, the build's done,
and you can see that the same
diagnostic is shown here in Xcode.
And this is a pretty obvious error.
It turns out that there was just
probably a paste error and there's
a duplicate version of the method,
and Clang has just decided
to warn on this because it's
a code cleanliness issue.
So let's just delete that,
and then let's commit this
to our local repository.
I'll type a quick message,
"Fix a duplicated method name."
And hit commit.
So again,
that went to the local SVN repository.
Let me switch back now to
the dashboard of Jenkins.
So as you remember, before,
when we defined the SVM repository,
we also set up a source control
management polling behavior.
So any continuous integration system
is generally going to want to have
some way to watch for commits.
And so this system is
just polling every minute.
And so what you can see here is
that now it's already automatically
scheduled build number three because
it saw I had committed a new change,
and without me having to do anything,
it's kicked off that build.
And if I click this now, you can see,
in fact, already four of the
builds are already done,
and they've all succeeded.
And now every build is finished,
So I made a change to the code
I built and tested against one
configuration in one version of Xcode,
but the automated system handled
automatically doing the builds
in the six flavors I cared about.
And so I hope that gives you an
idea of why you might want to use
a continuous integration system and
how Xcode build can fit into that.
And so with that,
let's switch back to the slides.
So far,
we've talked just about Xcode build.
What happens when you need
to work outside of Xcode?
So if you're familiar
with OS X development,
Xcode is really the place
to do OS X development.
Why would you want to
work outside of Xcode?
Well, there's a couple reasons.
The main one is there are many
projects out there in the world that
don't supply native Xcode projects.
A couple examples, you may have some kind
of legacy code base.
It's been around before Xcode, possibly.
You may want to do traditional
Unix development where all the
tools are available in your path.
Or you may be working with some kind
of cross-platform open source project,
and the maintainers of the
project haven't defined an Xcode,
haven't set up an Xcode project for that.
So I want to talk now about the
tools for working outside of Xcode,
and in particular what I want
to convey is an understanding of
the command line tools package.
So this is a brief roadmap
for this part of the session.
So the first thing I want to just say
what is the command line tools package
and talk about how you install it.
And then I want to give some best
practices as far as when should
you use the command line tools
package and when do you not need
the command line tools package.
So the command line tools package,
what is it?
Well, it's new.
It was introduced in Xcode 4.3,
which GMed earlier this year.
And it's a separate package for doing
extensive command line development.
And the main thing is it's the
supportive mechanism for doing
Unix-style development where
you need tools and headers,
et cetera, to be present in /user.
So what does the package contain?
Well, roughly speaking,
it contains everything for
command line development.
It contains the same tools
that Xcode and Xcode build use,
but it contains them
packaged in a different way.
They're bundled at the
standard Unix location.
There's really three main pieces
of the command line tools package.
There's the tools themselves,
things like the compiler and the linker,
but there's also a version of the
OS X SDK and the documentation,
the man pages that we've
been talking about.
And the tools that are included
here aren't just the development
tools like the compiler.
It also includes things like debuggers
as well as source control tools.
So if you need SVN or
Git from the command line,
they're there.
And in general, any tool that's available
embedded inside Xcode,
so for example,
the tools for working with AppleScript,
those are available in the
command line tools package.
How do you get it?
There are two ways.
You can either download it
from the developer resources
section of developer.apple.com,
or if you have Xcode installed,
you can actually install directly,
and I'll show that in a second.
That's the easier way.
So to get it from developer.apple.com,
it's fairly straightforward.
You just go to the resources
section of the site,
and then select Mac OS X downloads
from the OS X development section.
From there, that takes you to this page,
and the best way to find
the tools is just type in
command line tools for Xcode,
and the top link will be the latest
version of the command line tools.
From Xcode, it's much simpler.
All you do is open the Preferences pane
and then select the Downloads section.
So from there,
there's a row for command line tools,
and if you select Install,
Xcode will handle automatically
downloading and installing
that package for you.
So when should you install this package?
For 99% of people on a Mac,
and developers included,
the main reason to install the package
is if you're doing some kind of open
source development or you want to
work with some open source component.
Maybe you just want some open source
server running on your machine.
So this is really the recommended
practice for working with any of the
open source package management facilities
like Fink and Maxports and Homebrew.
What you may not realize is that when
you run a command like Fink install WGIT,
many times what's actually happening is
that the binary isn't being downloaded,
but the source is being downloaded.
And that tool is actually being built
and installed local to your machine.
So that means you need a version
of the development tools,
and that's really what the command
line tools package is geared for,
for most people.
You might also want it if you just
happen to be doing extensive command
line development like we talked before,
whether that be you have
a traditional workflow,
legacy projects,
or you're doing some kind of
development outside of Xcode.
So the key defining feature here is
that you need all of the tools to
be available on the command line.
You want to be able to type Clang,
you want to be able to type CC,
and you want them to be
available in your path.
You want standard I/O.h to
be available at user include.
The last reason is if you're only
doing a small amount of development,
maybe you have a server and you just
need to build a small tool remotely,
then the command line tools package
is a very small download size.
It's also completely self-contained.
So the command line tools package
doesn't contain the IDE or other package.
It's completely independent,
and that means it's about 120 megabytes.
It doesn't take much disk space,
very quick to download.
So that's great.
And I know for almost all of you,
you want to just click install
on everything to get everything
you could possibly have.
But why might you not want
to install the package?
Well,
My recommendation is don't
install the command line tools
just to get access to SVN or Git.
If that's all you want to be
able to type on the command line,
then instead use XCRUN and use shell
aliases like Anders showed before.
And in general,
the message is don't install the
command line tools unless you need them.
They're the same tools that are in Xcode.
They're not new tools.
And there's only one instance
of the command line tools.
Because they're packaged in /user,
they can only be one instance.
And that means also the
install is distinct from Xcode.
It's a separate copy.
So what that means is if
you update your Xcode,
you should probably also manually
update your command line tools.
And if you never need them,
there's no reason to do that work.
So that covers the command
line tools package.
And I know we've covered a lot
of disparate things in this talk,
so I wanted to do a bit of a
review of the main takeaways.
So the primary commands that
you're going to use when doing
command line development with Xcode
are the top three listed here.
So Xcode select is the tool you'll
use to choose the default Xcode.
Xcode build is the tool you'll use
to interact with your projects,
whether that be to build them,
to archive them,
or to query information from them.
And Xc run is the tool you use to
get more fine-grain information,
where are individual tools,
or to execute individual tools.
And for all of those,
and any of the other command line tools,
you can use the built-in man command
to get access to the documentation.
So I also wanted to provide a
brief summary of the main options
that you'll use for these tools,
because many of them, for example,
Xcode build has many more options
if you look at the man page.
So for Xcode select,
there's really only two.
Print path will show you what
the currently selected default
Xcode developer directory is.
And you can also use dash switch to
pass the path to a new Xcode that
you want to become the default.
For Xcode build,
the main options that you'll
use are -workspace or -project.
That specifies what
you want to operate on.
And then in conjunction,
you'll use -scheme and -sdk to
override what the defaults are,
what was set in the project
the last time it was open.
As far as querying information,
-show_sdks shows you the
installed SDKs on your system,
and -list can tell you the schemes
and targets in your project.
Finally,
-show_buildsettings is very helpful for
showing you the active build settings.
Those are the things that you
could use in your configuration,
or the things that get inherited
because of what you've set up before.
And if you need to
override a build setting,
the syntax you use is name,
then an equals,
and the value you want to set it to.
So for XCRUN, there are two main ways
of invoking the tool.
You can use -find to find
the tool inside the app.
And then you can also pass the name of
the tool and then a bunch of arguments
if you just want to make sure that
the tool is in the right place.
So for XCRUN, there are two main ways
of invoking the tool.
You can use -find to find
the tool inside the app.
And then you can also pass the name of
the tool and then a bunch of arguments
if you just want to make sure that
the tool is in the right place.
So for XCRUN,
there are two main ways of invoking
the tool and then a bunch of arguments
if you just want to make sure that
the tool is in the right place.
And for either of those,
you can pass -sdk to specify
the SDK to look up the tools in.
[Transcript missing]
I hope I've made a compelling argument
for why you might want to look into using
continuous integration for improving your
own development if you aren't already.
And lastly,
use the command line tools package
when you need to work outside of Xcode,
when you need to work with some
kind of open source project.
So that's it for us.
Thanks and have a great WWDC.